So, as I welcomed you to my profile with Basic structure of html. then here's an introduction to html...
Introduction To HTML



HTML is an acronym which stands for Hyper Text Markup Language, which is used for creating web pages and web applications.. Let's see what is Hyper Text and what is Markup Language?


Hyper Text: Hyper Text simply means "Text within Text". A text has a link within it, is a hypertext. Every time when you click on a link which brings you to a new webpage, you have clicked on a hypertext. Hyper Text is a way to link two or more web pages (HTML documents) with each other.


Markup language: A markup language is a computer language that is used to apply layout and formatting convention to a text document. Markup language makes text more interactive and dynamic. It can turn text into images, tables, links, etc.


Web Page: A web page is a document which is commonly written in HTML and translated by a web browser. A web page can be identified by entering an URL. A Web page can be of the static or dynamic type. With the help of HTML only we can create static web pages.



Brief History of HTML


HTML was created by Berners-Lee in late 1991.


Tim Berners-Lee is known as father of HTML. The first available description of HTML was a document called "HTML Tags" proposed by Tim in late 1991. The latest version of HTML is HTML5, which we will learn later in this tutorial.


"HTML 2.0" was the first standard HTML specification which was published in 1995. HTML 4.01 was a major version of HTML and it was published in late 1999. Though HTML 4.01 version is widely used but currently we are having HTML-5 version which is an extension to HTML 4.01, and this version was published in 2012.



Features of HTML


    It is a very easy and simple language. It can be easily understood and modified.

    It is very easy to make effective presentation with HTML because it has a lot of formatting tags.

    It is a markup language so it provides a flexible way to design web pages along with the text.

    It facilitates programmers to add link on the web pages (by html anchor tag) , so it enhances the interest of browsing of the user.

    It is platform-independent because it can be displayed on any platform like Windows, Linux and Macintosh etc.

    It facilitates the programmer to add Graphics, Videos, and Sound to the web pages which makes it more attractive and interactive.

    HTML is case-insensitive language, which means we can use tags either in lower-case or upper-case.
